let's recap the other big developments
of the day besides the surg in Israeli
deaths in the Gaza War Israel began
shelling Gaza since early Dawn on Sunday
many buildings were damaged in the
strikes at least 330 Palestinians have
been killed so far Israel has also
deployed troops along the Lebanon border
after hisbah shelled areas under its
occupation Israel retaliated with
artillery fire after three posts were
hit in the Sheba Farms areas let's cross
now to Al DA's senior political analyst
Maran Bashar who joins us live now from
Paris uh Maran you know the story all
too well and it's ongoing tragedy for
the Palestinians now Hamas assault has
killed at least 600 Israelis so far we
have more than uh 300 Palestinian dead
it's hard to believe we're only not even
48 hours in we're just over 48 hours in
what do you make of all
this well first and foremost it's tragic
as all wars are tragic mad our dad and
in this case uh you know quite surreal
uh because we've seen it repeat itself
again and again leading to more of the
same results uh in fact uh the two sides
are locked in in some sort of a fatal
dance with death uh now uh you know a
good number of decades and uh clearly uh
over the past two three or four years
the Israelis have shown themselves to be
uh you know quite indifferent in a
totally new way uh to the Palestinian uh
cause or to the Palestinian suffering or
to the Palestinian demand for justice uh
the past uh government or two in Israel
uh have shown to be the most fanatic the
most fascist in Israel's history and
they certainly uh abandoned uh you know
any diplomacy and clearly uh doubled
down on repress ing the Palestinians uh
doubl down on the their illegal
settlements and clearly made the
Palestinians invisible and what we've
seen the last 24 hours are the
Palestinians making themselves
visible uh you know whatever means uh
necessary as it were and some of their
means of course uh have been terrorizing
uh some of those towns in the southern
part of Israel uh I think in so many
ways and I think we really need to
abandon some of the language has been
used as cliches by now about this about
this issue you know every once you know
every time this happens you know a
microphone is shoved in you know in
front of someone asking to condemn and
condemn and condemn let's all condemn
you know whatever the Palestinian side
the Israeli side but then what condone
for what purpose because as the two
sides are locked in in this uh
nonsensical conflict something Gotta
Give in the sense of ending what they
call uh the root cause and there is a
root cause because there's an occupation
and there's an occupier and it's been
going on for over 55 years everyone
knows that in the world every
Israeli knows that that but you wouldn't
think so you wouldn't think so when you
listen to the response of world leaders
you know like Biden and the UK and so
forth not to mention a lot of media
around the world you know I've been
talking about this cause and effect but
nobody in those circles is talking about
the cause they're just talking about the
effect you no absolutely you are right
100% And this is the problem the problem
is that there is certain hypocrisy in
approaching these things and framing
them in whichever way that is uh you
know appeases one's partners and in the
sense uh you know the same French people
right who were engaged in the war in
Algeria concluded long time ago that
this sort of an occupation leads to only
1 million deaths and ends up in the
withdrawal of French troops from Algeria
and for the French 75% of their public
opinion at the time deciding this was a
really terrible war that France should
not get involved in because it was a
colonial war now everyone knows
something similar happened in Northern
irand something happened in Iraq more
recently occupation and colonialism
doesn't work occupation in the 21st
century certainly is p the only one
example today of uh such colonialism is
Israel Palestine but you say most of not
only officials journalists I would say
in a certain lazy way approach this uh
issue in a most cliche way frame it for
me please anyone you know they need to
frame it what is is this occupation or
not because clearly there's an
overwhelming understanding even
consensus that there is an occupation so
why don't we judge it as such then why
don't we judge the wh scale violation of
Human Rights and civil rights of of the
occupation of
because occation is a system of violence
but they don't do that why because in
this in their
frame it's not the action that's being
judged it's the actor so Palestinian
Commandos are terrorists Israeli
Commandos are liberators and Protectors
of Israeli civilians so the language
being used is really double standard the
the the the the right of resistance is
not accepted and yes as I said just
earlier Hamas has you has terrorized
terrorized the Israeli populations and
you know other segments of Israel
including its military in the southern
part of Israel and I think Hamas should
own up to it because the International
Community has abandoned uh the
Palestinian cause and international law
has forgotten the Palestinians and their
cause and now seems like number ofans
abandoning international law M great to
get your analysis appreciate that
bashara there speaking to just there
from Paris thank you